Chicken Caesar Salad
SERVESServes 6

WHY THIS RECIPE WORKS
To ensure moist, judiciously seasoned chicken, we arranged four chicken breasts in a steamer basket, submerged the basket in a Dutch oven filled with salted water, and brought the water up to 175 degrees over medium heat. We then shut off the heat, covered the pot, and let the chicken cook gently via the salted water's residual heat until the chicken registered 160 degrees. Before slicing the chicken, we let it rest to allow the juices to redistribute, ensuring moist meat. We placed the sliced chicken over a bed of romaine, croutons, and grated Parmesan cheese that we had dressed with a mayonnaise-based (raw egg-free) Caesar dressing.

INGREDIENTS
CHICKEN
4 (6- to 8-ounce) boneless, skinless chicken breasts, trimmed
Salt
DRESSING
2/3 cup mayonnaise
3 tablespoons lemon juice
1 tablespoon Dijon mustard
1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil
2 teaspoons Worcestershire sauce
2 garlic cloves, minced
3 - 4 anchovy fillets, rinsed, patted dry, and minced
1/2 teaspoon pepper
1/8 teaspoon salt
SALAD
2 heads romaine lettuce (12 ounces each) (large outer leaves discarded), washed, dried, and cut into 1-inch pieces (16 cups)
2 cups croutons
2 ounces Parmesan cheese, grated (1 cup)
pepper
*BEFORE YOU BEGIN
We recommend using homemade croutons, but store-bought are fine as well. Adjust the amount of anchovies to suit your taste.

1
INSTRUCTIONS
FOR THE CHICKEN: Cover chicken with plastic wrap and pound thick ends gently with meat pounder until 3/4 inch thick. Whisk 4 quarts cool water with 2 tablespoons salt in large Dutch oven. Arrange chicken in steamer basket, making sure not to overlap. Submerge steamer basket in pot. Heat over medium heat, stirring occasionally to even out hot spots, until water registers 175 degrees, 15 to 20 minutes. Turn off heat, cover pot, remove pot from burner, and let stand until chicken registers 160 degrees, 17 to 22 minutes. Transfer chicken to cutting board and let cool for 10 to 15 minutes. Slice crosswise 1/4 inch thick.

2
FOR THE DRESSING: Whisk all ingredients together in bowl.

3
FOR THE SALAD: Toss lettuce with croutons, 3/4 cup Parmesan, and two-thirds of dressing in large bowl until well combined. Divide dressed lettuce among 6 plates. Toss chicken with remaining dressing. Divide chicken equally among plates and season with pepper. Serve immediately, passing remaining 1/4 cup Parmesan separately.
