Green Leaf and Radicchio Salad with Grapefruit and Fennel
SERVESServes 4

WHY THIS RECIPE WORKS
After trying a few alternatives, we found that soft, mineral-y green leaf lettuce held its own against bitter, crunchy radicchio. Sweet, peppery grapefruit and grassy fennel both counteracted the bitterness of radicchio and added a pleasant brightness to the salad. Parmesan cheese contributed richness that helped round out the flavors. Thinly slicing the fennel and shaving the Parmesan allowed us to incorporate them cohesively into the salad. We chose sweet-sour balsamic vinegar as the base for our Foolproof Vinaigrette here to complement the grapefruit and balance the radicchio's bitterness.

INGREDIENTS
DRESSING
1 tablespoon balsamic vinegar
1 1/2 teaspoons very finely minced shallots
1/2 teaspoon mayonnaise
1/2 teaspoon Dijon mustard
1/8 teaspoon table salt
3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
SALAD
1 grapefruit
1 small head green leaf lettuce, torn into bite-size pieces (8 cups)
1/2 small head radicchio, torn into bite-size pieces (2 cups)
1 small fennel bulb, stalks discarded, bulb halved, cored, and sliced thin
1 1/2 ounces Parmesan cheese, shaved, divided
*BEFORE YOU BEGIN
Use a mandoline to thinly slice the fennel and a vegetable peeler to shave the Parmesan. Drain any excess liquid from the grapefruit segments before adding them to the salad.

1
INSTRUCTIONS
For the dressing: Combine vinegar, shallot, mayonnaise, mustard, and salt in medium bowl and season with pepper to taste. Whisk until mixture is milky in appearance and no lumps of mayonnaise remain. Whisking constantly, very slowly drizzle oil into vinegar mixture until glossy and lightly thickened, with no pools of oil visible. (If pools of oil are visible on surface as you whisk, stop addition of oil and whisk until mixture is well combined, then resume whisking in oil in slow stream.)

2
For the salad: Cut away peel and pith from grapefruit. Holding fruit over bowl, use paring knife to slice between membranes to release segments. Cut segments into 1/2-inch pieces. Place lettuce, radicchio, fennel, half of Parmesan, and grapefruit segments in large bowl. Toss to combine. Drizzle with dressing and toss until greens are evenly coated. Season with salt to taste. Sprinkle with remaining Parmesan. Serve immediately.
