Skillet-Charred Green Beans with Crispy Bread-Crumb Topping
SERVESServes 4

WHY THIS RECIPE WORKS
Deep-frying green beans evenly softens and blisters them, leaving them with a soft, appealingly dense, satisfying chew and concentrated flavor. To achieve those results without the hassle of frying, we first softened the beans by steaming them in the microwave. Then we charred them in a skillet with just a couple tablespoons of hot oil. We didn't stir them for the first few minutes so that they developed deep color and flavor on one side; then we tossed them in the pan so that they blistered all over. Once they were charred, we topped them with toasted and seasoned panko bread crumbs.

INGREDIENTS
2 tablespoons panko bread crumbs
3 tablespoons vegetable oil
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon pepper
1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes
1 pound green beans, trimmed
*BEFORE YOU BEGIN
If your green beans are thin and tender, microwave them for 6 to 8 minutes; microwave thicker, tougher green beans for 10 to 12 minutes. To make the beans without a microwave, bring 1/4 cup of water to a boil in a skillet over high heat. Add the beans, cover, and cook for 5 minutes. Transfer the beans to a bowl and wash the skillet before proceeding with the recipe.

1
INSTRUCTIONS
Process panko in spice grinder or mortar and pestle until uniformly ground to medium-fine consistency that resembles couscous. Transfer panko to 12-inch nonstick skillet, add 1 tablespoon oil, and stir to combine. Cook over medium-low heat, stirring frequently, until light golden brown, 5 to 7 minutes. Remove skillet from heat; add salt, pepper, and pepper flakes; and stir to combine. Transfer panko mixture to bowl and set aside. Wash out skillet thoroughly and dry with paper towels.

2
Rinse green beans but do not dry. Place in medium bowl, cover, and microwave until tender, 6 to 12 minutes, stirring every 3 minutes. Using tongs, transfer green beans to paper towel-lined plate and let drain.

3
Heat remaining 2 tablespoons oil in now-empty skillet over high heat until just smoking. Add green beans in single layer. Cook, without stirring, until green beans begin to blister and char, 4 to 5 minutes. Toss green beans and continue to cook, stirring occasionally, until green beans are softened and charred, 4 to 5 minutes longer. Using tongs, transfer green beans to serving bowl, leaving any excess oil in skillet. Sprinkle with panko mixture and toss to coat. Serve.
