Traditional Greek Spanakotiropita with Homemade Phyllo Dough
Ingredients
For the dough

6.5 cups of bread flour (800 gr hard flour type M, or can be substituted with 6.5 cups of all-purpose flour)
2 tablespoons olive oil
1 pinch sea salt
2 cups (400 ml) water
2 tablespoons white vinegar or wine
Extra olive oil, to spread on phyllo
Corn flour to (to dust) while rolling out the phyllo

For the filling

3 bunches (approx. 2 lbs) spinach
1 bunch of dill
2 big onions
1 big leek
3 eggs
1 1/3 cup feta cheese
2/3 cup anthotiro cheese (can substitute with ricotta)
3 cloves of garlic
2 tablespoons olive oil
1 tbsp dried oregano
Salt (to taste)
Pepper (to taste)

Directions

To prepare the filling:

1. Wash all the greens and vegetables. If the spinach leaves are too big, chop them roughly. Add some salt to the spinach and squeeze it with your hands to strain it well. Thinly slice the leek and the onions. Finely chop the garlic. Mince the dill.

2. In a big bowl or basin, combine the spinach, onions, olive oil, leek, garlic, oregano, salt, pepper, eggs, crumbled feta and anthotiro cheese. Mix well.

To prepare the phyllo dough:

3. On a flat surface or in a large bowl, add the flour and make a pit. Add salt, olive oil, and white vinegar or wine. With your hands, mix ingredients well, gradually adding water as needed. When adding wet ingredients on the table, make a pit in the flour mixture and pour wet ingredients, then gently fold the flour/dough on top of the wet ingredients to incorporate. Knead the dough with your hands, until you have a soft but not sticky dough (roughly 10 minutes of kneading).

4. Cut the dough into 5 roughly equal-sized balls. Shape each ball and leave to rest, dusting with corn flour as needed and at the end to prevent dough from sticking.

5. With a short, thick rolling pin, press one ball of dough to flatten it as much as you can. Roll until the dough is approximately 1/4 inch thick, keeping roughly in the shape of a circle. Switch to a thin, longer rolling pin (a 1/2″ dowel, at least 24″ long, is appropriate). With the dough facing you, begin rolling the dough onto the thin rolling pin starting at 8 o’clock. Roll the dough all the way on to the pin. With the rolling pin and dough now facing you, roll out the dough, pressing from the center to the edges, to “open” the dough. When the dough is off the rolling pin, repeat the process, rolling the dough back on to the pin starting at the 8 0’clock position. Continue to roll out the dough, sprinkling corn flour on the top of of dough as needed to prevent any stickiness. Repeat the process until dough becomes paper thin (you will probably need to repeat the “opening” process at least 10 times and up to 20 times). You are now done with your first sheet of phyllo!

7. Brush olive oil into a non-stick baking dish (roughly 9×13) and lay down one sheet of phyllo inside, letting the edges overhang the pan. Brush phyllo with olive oil.

8. Repeat the rolling/opening process with two more balls of dough. Layer these two additional phyllo sheets on top of the first, brushing with olive oil in-between each layer. You will have three layers total.

9. Preheat the oven to 350˚F (180 Celsius).

10. Add half of the filling to the pan, carefully spreading on top of the phyllo sheets. Repeat the rolling process with your fourth ball of dough. Lie this phyllo sheet on top of the filling in the pan, pressing flat on the filling and in the corners to remove any air. Add the remainder of the filling on top.

11. Holding the corners of the overhanging phyllo, gently pull at each of the four corners to remove a handful of the corner dough. This will ensure the corners of the baked dish are not too thick. You will be left with four phyllo “flaps”. Fold each of these over the center of the pie, creating a top layer to cover the pie filling. It is fine for this to be somewhat rough as it will be covered by the final phyllo layer. Pat down your sealed pie to remove any air pockets.

12. Roll out your final phyllo ball using the same process as before. Layer this sheet gently on top of the pie to create a more finished look that covers the pie.

13. Brush the top generously with olive oil, and cut your pie into serving-sized pieces (approx. 3×3 inches) with a sharp knife. Sprinkle some water on top to finish (this will give the surface a nice crust).

14. Bake for 45-60 minutes, checking periodically. If the surface has browned, cover it with aluminum foil to prevent it from getting burned. Check if the bottom of the pie has turned golden brown.

15. Let it cool, serve with your favorite Greek sides, and enjoy.
